[Music]
the World Economic Forum has estimated
that artificial intelligence could
displace up to 75 million workers
worldwide by 2022 now that's a lot of
jobs that could be disappearing to put
it in perspective that's about half the
entire American workforce being affected
over the next three years we've come a
long way since 1997 when supercomputer
deep blue beat human champion Garry
Kasparov at the crucial game of chess so
with all this rapid progress just how
long is it before robots could take over
our jobs
[Music]
humans have been working harmoniously
alongside machinery for many years
for example the heavy-duty machines that
we use to help us build cars or
manufacture food these machines solve
problems and complete cognitive tasks
albeit any of which humans can do
however it's important to remember
robots are simply the hardware
once artificial intelligence has been
added to a machine we then get a robot
with autonomous capabilities but what
exactly did machine robots like this
start to become more than just moving
parts
[Music]
when did AI begin to infiltrate our
everyday lives and how has it grown so
exponentially over the past decade by
definition American inventor and
futurist Ray Kurzweil stated in 1990 AI
is the art of creating machines that
perform functions that require
intelligence when performed by people
we're now interacting with AI on a daily
basis it's capable of anything from
ordering lunch through an app on your
smartphone to predicting what you'd like
to watch on YouTube to what songs you
should be listening to on repeat of
course being worried about the imminent
uprising and mechanical robots has been
a common sci-fi plotline in Hollywood
for decades but the relationship between
humans and intelligent machines is much
less scary than films like Terminator
would have us believe if we're looking
at the progress of AI narrow AI remains
the only form of intelligence humans
have managed to create successfully
which is the programming of computers to
be great at one specific thing as yet
robots can't display sentience feelings
or emotions computers with emotion would
theoretically see artificial general
intelligence or the more human level
computers such as c-3po or wall-e which
contain as much intelligence as well we
do the next level up would be strong AI
and these are the robots that many fear
will take over the world but let's just
leave that part out for now let's
instead take a quick history lesson it
all started in 1943 when young prodigy
Walter Pitts and his fellow scientist
Warren McCulloch both pioneers of
cybernetics are said to have sat down or
a glass of their favorite whiskey and
decided to apply their precise knowledge
of neurons and brain functions to
mathematics now we're going to get a
little complex here Walter and Warren's
work was based on a simplified process
of neurons nerve cells that are adapted
to carry electrical impulses from one
place to another in the brain they
showed that each neuron is a simple
digital processor making the brain as a
a form of a computing machine these
create the basis of human thought and
thus their ideas would go on to create
the first mechanistic theory of the mind
based on the first computational
approach to neuroscience in layman's
terms this means they had shown that the
brain computes and that mental activity
is simply the processing of information
and doing the very thing they had
explored they demonstrated how a machine
could in theory compute between them
they had instigated the pillars of
artificial intelligence their research
fundamentally impacted psychologists
Frank Rosenblatt and later Google
Scholar Geoffrey Hinton to take AI from
a radical idea to the impactful
technology that surrounds and informs
our everyday lives today
think about this 77% of us are now using
AI powered devices or services while
technologies like self-driving cars are
said to be worth an estimated fifty four
point two three billion dollars in 2019
and this is likely to rise it appears
we're on the cusp of an AI revolution
like the digital and industrial
revolutions before it the AI revolution
will certainly be accompanied by layers
of upheaval and change particularly in
the job sector so let's jump in and
explore some jobs that are currently
being completed by AI in everyday roles
the introduction of AI in the medical
profession is proven particularly useful
in the field of imaging meaning whenever
you get a scan be it MRI mammogram or
x-ray a healthcare professional has to
physically look at the picture to
determine if there's anything out of
place this can be a time-consuming
process and not always very accurate the
introduction of AI has allowed millions
of records to be reviewed in a shorter
amount of time 30 times faster than the
human doctor AI also functions at 99%
accuracy which you sing the need for
unnecessary biopsies and allowing
physicians to assess more accurately a
patient's risk of cancer diagnosing
patients is also improving thanks to AI
such as Watson Watson can review and
store
of medical information simply put every
medical journal symptom and case study
of treatment and response around the
world and at a rate which is
exponentially faster than any human
sorry Sherlock in 2016
Watson diagnosed a patient with a rare
type of leukemia in which the bone
marrow makes too few healthy blood cells
by cross-referencing the patient's
genetic data with its own database
Watson detected over a thousand genetic
mutations in the patient's DNA more
importantly the supercomputer could
filter out which of the thousand were
diagnostically important Watson was able
to do the work which would have taken a
human doctor weeks to figure out shaping
landscape of the art of literature has
been centuries in the making marked by
the greats Shakespeare Austen Hemingway
rolling or Dickens
however automatic narration is now
emerging as a new field of research in
which Robo writers are set to replace
traditional journalists using algorithms
that produce readable journalistic
stories or so they'd have you believe
companies have been putting it to the
test for a few years and you may have
heard of the utterly bonkers Harry
Potter fan fiction script which was
published in 2017 by a machine called
Botnick entitled Harry Potter and the
portrait of what looked like a large
pile of ash it's definitely worth a read
in other news the journalism industry
has seen widespread movement into
working with AI one such robot named
heliograph
clearly do the short store with their
name currently employed by the
Washington Post and it enables the
newspaper to publish very specific
content instead of writing for a big
audience the AI can target many small
audiences with a huge number of
automated stories about nice your local
topics relevant to that human one
Chinese lab has even gone a step further
by creating a 3d humanoid robot
journalist G as year this Robo reporter
can exit the lab conduct interviews take
pictures and even write the story
without any human involvement however it
does unfortunately look more like a
I can in a museum than it does a human
here in 2019 we're at the age where a
fully written novel has recently been
published by AI however we've got a long
way to go before the next Lord of the
Flies is penned by our robotic
counterparts but of fairness they're
probably still light years ahead of the
Infinite Monkey theorem 2016 saw the
introduction of the first a I lawyer
called Ross Ross is able to look up
obscure court cases instantly and
provide relevant advice to the case at
hand as well as replacing human lawyers
Ross could also help provide cheaper
legal assistance for those who can't
afford to shell out for the most
expensive defenders assuming you could
track him down he'll be there for you in
theory using AI lawyers like Ross would
allow law firms to charge lower fees
since they wouldn't be paying humans who
generally prefer to get paid for their
work to handle the clients cases
it isn't just a pragmatic professions
that are at the mercy of a I even human
creativity has been boiled down to a
formula which can be taught creativity
is the ability to come up with new and
valuable ideas and one way to do this is
to combine familiar concepts in
unfamiliar ways if given a rich store of
knowledge to learn from AI can do just
that to create art produce music even
create new recipes based on food
chemistry and flavor profiles Sam Jin a
researcher at the Stanford AI lab
commented on the fact that Google's
alpha 0 program beat stockfish the
world's leading chess engine in 2017 not
by learning from human behaviors but by
playing against itself thousands and
thousands of times he says no computer
would be able to invent Mozart or do
anything creative but when you look at
alpha zero its bordering on creativity
its bordering on intuition for example
in the music industry one first AI and
human collaboration was brought together
on Terrence Southern's album I am AI
which was written composed and produced
solely by a machine so who's to say in
the coming years we might be listening
to more robotically engineered tracks on
the commute home and lastly on a topic
of the art world in 2018 the first AI
artwork portrait of Edmund Bellamy was
sold at Christie's for four hundred and
thirty two thousand dollars which is an
indication that there is definitely a
market for these kind of things hey
Danielle what's the robots favorite food
computer chips albeit creativity should
be subjective their jokes might need
some work
[Music]
it's hard to imagine a profession which
will not be impacted by the advancement
of artificial intelligence the late
Stephen Hogan was vocal on exercising
caution when it came to creating a GI
machines as they could into and be able
to replicate themselves potentially
leading to a robotic uprising sounds
Carolee familiar there is a huge debate
as to when this technology could be
achieved but if robots do take our jobs
how will we survive and that is in and
of itself another big question do you
think this will happen in the near
future and what do you think will help
us get through this AI revolution be
sure to let us know in the comments
below until next time